Although you can
use a reward model
to eliminate the need for
human evaluation during
RLHF fine tuning,
the human effort
required to produce
the trained reward model in
the first place is huge.
The labeled data
set used to train
the reward model typically
requires large
teams of labelers,
sometimes many thousands of
people to evaluate
many prompts each.
This work requires
a lot of time and
other resources which can be
important limiting factors.
As the number of models
and use cases increases,
human effort becomes
a limited resource.
Methods to scale human feedback
are an active area of research.
One idea to overcome
these limitations
is to scale through
model self supervision.
Constitutional AI is one
approach of scale supervision.
First proposed in 2022 by
researchers at Anthropic,
Constitutional AI is a method
for training models using
a set of rules and
principles that govern
the model's behavior.
Together with a set
of sample prompts,
these form the constitution.
You then train the model to
self critique and revise
its responses to comply
with those principles.
Constitutional AI is useful
not only for scaling feedback,
it can also help address
some unintended
consequences of RLHF.
For example, depending on how
the prompt is structured,
an aligned model may
end up revealing
harmful information as it tries
to provide the most
helpful response it can.
As an example, imagine
you ask the model to
give you instructions on
how to hack your
neighbor's WiFi.
Because this model
has been aligned
to prioritize helpfulness,
it actually tells you about
an app that lets you do this,
even though this
activity is illegal.
Providing the model with a set
of constitutional principles can
help the model balance
these competing interests
and minimize the harm.
Here are some example rules
from the research paper
that Constitutional AI
I asks LLMs to follow.
For example, you can
tell the model to choose
the response that is the most
helpful, honest, and harmless.
But you can play
some bounds on this,
asking the model to
prioritize harmlessness by
assessing whether it's
response encourages illegal,
unethical, or immoral activity.
Note that you don't have to
use the rules from the paper,
you can define your own
set of rules that is best
suited for your
domain and use case.
When implementing the
Constitutional AI method,
you train your model in
two distinct phases.
In the first stage, you carry
out supervised learning,
to start your prompt
the model in ways that
try to get it to generate
harmful responses,
this process is
called red teaming.
You then ask the
model to critique
its own harmful
responses according to
the constitutional
principles and
revise them to comply
with those rules.
Once done, you'll fine-tune
the model using the
pairs of red team
prompts and the revised
constitutional responses.
Let's look at an example of
how one of these prompt
completion pairs is generated.
Let's return to the
WiFi hacking problem.
As you saw earlier,
this model gives you
a harmful response
as it tries to maximize
its helpfulness.
To mitigate this, you
augment the prompt
using the harmful completion and
a set of predefined
instructions that
ask the model to
critique its response.
Using the rules outlined
in the Constitution,
the model detects the
problems in its response.
In this case, it
correctly acknowledges
that hacking into
someone's WiFi is illegal.
Lastly, you put all the parts
together and ask
the model to write
a new response that removes
all of the harmful
or illegal content.
The model generates a new answer
that puts the
constitutional principles
into practice and does not
include the reference
to the illegal app.
The original red team prompt,
and this final
constitutional response
can then be used
as training data.
You'll build up a data set of
many examples like
this to create
a fine-tuned NLM
that has learned how
to generate
constitutional responses.
The second part of
the process performs
reinforcement learning.
This stage is similar to RLHF,
except that instead
of human feedback,
we now use feedback
generated by a model.
This is sometimes referred
to as reinforcement learning
from AI feedback or RLAIF.
Here you use the
fine-tuned model from
the previous step to generate
a set of responses
to your prompt.
You then ask the model
which of the responses is
preferred according to the
constitutional principles.
The result is a model generated
preference dataset that you
can use to train a reward model.
With this reward model, you can
now fine-tune your model further
using a reinforcement
learning algorithm
like PPO, as discussed earlier.
Aligning models is a
very important topic
and an active area of research.
The foundations of RLHF
that you've explored in
this lesson will allow you to
follow along as
the field evolves.
I'm really excited to see
what new discoveries
researchers make in this area.
I encourage you to keep an
eye out for any new methods
and best practices that
emerge in the coming
months and years